README.md, before:

![](assets/logo.png)

# Fast Segment Anything

[[`📕Paper`](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12156.pdf)] [[`🤗HuggingFace Demo`](https://huggingface.co/spaces/An-619/FastSAM)] [[`Colab demo`](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1oX14f6IneGGw612WgVlAiy91UHwFAvr9?usp=sharing)] [[`Replicate demo & API`](https://replicate.com/casia-iva-lab/fastsam)] [[`Model Zoo`](#model-checkpoints)] [[`BibTeX`](#citing-fastsam)]

![FastSAM Speed](assets/head_fig.png)

The **Fast Segment Anything Model(FastSAM)** is a CNN Segment Anything Model trained by only 2% of the SA-1B dataset published by SAM authors. The FastSAM achieve a comparable performance with
the SAM method at **50× higher run-time speed**.

![FastSAM design](assets/Overview.png)

**🍇 Updates**
- **`2023/06/26`** Release [FastSAM Replicate Online Demo](https://replicate.com/casia-iva-lab/fastsam). Thanks a lot to [Chenxi](https://chenxwh.github.io/) for providing this nice demo 🌹.
- **`2023/06/26`** Support [points mode](https://huggingface.co/spaces/An-619/FastSAM) in HuggingFace Space. Better and faster interaction will come soon!

## Installation

Clone the repository locally:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/CASIA-IVA-Lab/FastSAM.git
```

Create the conda env. The code requires `python>=3.7`, as well as `pytorch>=1.7` and `torchvision>=0.8`. Please follow the instructions [here](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) to install both PyTorch and TorchVision dependencies. Installing both PyTorch and TorchVision with CUDA support is strongly recommended.

```shell
conda create -n FastSAM python=3.9
conda activate FastSAM
```

Install the packages:

```shell
cd FastSAM
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Install CLIP:

```shell
pip install git+https://github.com/openai/CLIP.git
```

## <a name="GettingStarted"></a> Getting Started

First download a [model checkpoint](#model-checkpoints).

Then, you can run the scripts to try the everything mode and three prompt modes.

```shell
# Everything mode
python Inference.py --model_path ./weights/FastSAM.pt --img_path ./images/dogs.jpg
```

```shell
# Text prompt
python Inference.py --model_path ./weights/FastSAM.pt --img_path ./images/dogs.jpg  --text_prompt "the yellow dog"
```

```shell
# Box prompt (xywh)
python Inference.py --model_path ./weights/FastSAM.pt --img_path ./images/dogs.jpg --box_prompt "[570,200,230,400]"
```

```shell
# Points prompt
python Inference.py --model_path ./weights/FastSAM.pt --img_path ./images/dogs.jpg  --point_prompt "[[520,360],[620,300]]" --point_label "[1,0]"
```

You are also welcomed to try our Colab demo: [FastSAM_example.ipynb](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1oX14f6IneGGw612WgVlAiy91UHwFAvr9?usp=sharing).

## Different Inference Options

We provide various options for different purposes, details are in [MORE_USAGES.md](MORE_USAGES.md).

## Web demo

### Gradio demo

- We also provide a UI for testing our method that is built with gradio. You can upload a custom image, select the mode and set the parameters, click the segment button, and get a satisfactory segmentation result. Everything mode and points mode are now supported for interaction, other modes will try to support in the future. Running the following command in a terminal will launch the demo:

```
# Download the pre-trained model in "./weights/FastSAM.pt"
python app_gradio.py
```

- This demo is also hosted on [HuggingFace Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/An-619/FastSAM).

![HF_Everyhting](assets/hf_everything_mode.png) ![HF_Points](assets/hf_points_mode.png)

### Replicate demo

- [Replicate demo](https://replicate.com/casia-iva-lab/fastsam) has supported all modes, you can experience points/box/text mode.

![Replicate-1](assets/replicate-1.png) ![Replicate-2](assets/replicate-2.png) ![Replicate-3](assets/replicate-3.png)

## <a name="Models"></a>Model Checkpoints

Two model versions of the model are available with different sizes. Click the links below to download the checkpoint for the corresponding model type.

- **`default` or `FastSAM`: [YOLOv8x based Segment Anything Model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m1sjY4ihXBU1fZXdQ-Xdj-mDltW-2Rqv/view?usp=sharing) | [Baidu Cloud (pwd: 0000).](https://pan.baidu.com/s/18KzBmOTENjByoWWR17zdiQ?pwd=0000)**
- `FastSAM-s`: [YOLOv8s based Segment Anything Model.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10XmSj6mmpmRb8NhXbtiuO9cTTBwR_9SV/view?usp=sharing)

## Results

All result were tested on a single NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090.

### 1. Inference time

Running Speed under Different Point Prompt Numbers(ms).
| method | params | 1 | 10 | 100 | E(16x16) | E(32x32\*) | E(64x64) |
|:------------------:|:--------:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:----------:|:-----------:|:----------:|
| SAM-H | 0.6G | 446 | 464 | 627 | 852 | 2099 | 6972 |
| SAM-B | 136M | 110 | 125 | 230 | 432 | 1383 | 5417 |
| FastSAM | 68M | 40 |40 | 40 | 40 | 40 | 40 |

### 2. Memory usage

|  Dataset  | Method  | GPU Memory (MB) |
| :-------: | :-----: | :-------------: |
| COCO 2017 | FastSAM |      2608       |
| COCO 2017 |  SAM-H  |      7060       |
| COCO 2017 |  SAM-B  |      4670       |

### 3. Zero-shot Transfer Experiments

#### Edge Detection

Test on the BSDB500 dataset.
|method | year| ODS | OIS | AP | R50 |
|:----------:|:-------:|:--------:|:--------:|:------:|:-----:|
| HED | 2015| .788 | .808 | .840 | .923 |
| SAM | 2023| .768 | .786 | .794 | .928 |
| FastSAM | 2023| .750 | .790 | .793 | .903 |

#### Object Proposals

##### COCO

|  method   | AR10 | AR100 | AR1000 | AUC  |
| :-------: | :--: | :---: | :-----: | :--: |
| SAM-H E64 | 15.5 | 45.6  |   67.7 | 32.1 |
| SAM-H E32 | 18.5 | 49.5  |   62.5 | 33.7 |
| SAM-B E32 | 11.4 | 39.6  |   59.1 | 27.3 |
|  FastSAM  | 15.7 | 47.3  |   63.7 | 32.2 |

##### LVIS

bbox AR@1000
| method | all | small | med. | large |
|:---------------:|:-----:|:------:|:-----:|:------:|
| ViTDet-H | 65.0 | 53.2 | 83.3 | 91.2 |
zero-shot transfer methods
| SAM-H E64 | 52.1 | 36.6 | 75.1 | 88.2 |
| SAM-H E32 | 50.3 | 33.1 | 76.2 | 89.8 |
| SAM-B E32 | 45.0 | 29.3 | 68.7 | 80.6 |
| FastSAM | 57.1 | 44.3 | 77.1 | 85.3 |

#### Instance Segmentation On COCO 2017

|  method  |  AP  | APS  | APM  | APL  |
| :------: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: |
| ViTDet-H | .510 | .320 | .543 | .689 |
|   SAM    | .465 | .308 | .510 | .617 |
| FastSAM  | .379 | .239 | .434 | .500 |

### 4. Performance Visualization

Several segmentation results:

#### Natural Images

![Natural Images](assets/eightpic.png)

#### Text to Mask

![Text to Mask](assets/dog_clip.png)

### 5.Downstream tasks

The results of several downstream tasks to show the effectiveness.

#### Anomaly Detection

![Anomaly Detection](assets/anomaly.png)

#### Salient Object Detection

![Salient Object Detection](assets/salient.png)

#### Building Extracting

![Building Detection](assets/building.png)

## License

The model is licensed under the [Apache 2.0 license](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgement

- [Segment Anything](https://segment-anything.com/) provides the SA-1B dataset and the base codes.
- [YOLOv8](https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics) provides codes and pre-trained models.
- [YOLACT](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10003) provides powerful instance segmentation method.
- [Grounded-Segment-Anything](https://huggingface.co/spaces/yizhangliu/Grounded-Segment-Anything) provides a useful web demo template.

## Contributors

Our project wouldn't be possible without the contributions of these amazing people! Thank you all for making this project better.

<a href="https://github.com/CASIA-IVA-Lab/FastSAM/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=CASIA-IVA-Lab/FastSAM" />
</a>


## Citing FastSAM

If you find this project useful for your research, please consider citing the following BibTeX entry.

```
@misc{zhao2023fast,
      title={Fast Segment Anything},
      author={Xu Zhao and Wenchao Ding and Yongqi An and Yinglong Du and Tao Yu and Min Li and Ming Tang and Jinqiao Wang},
      year={2023},
      eprint={2306.12156},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=CASIA-IVA-Lab/FastSAM&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#CASIA-IVA-Lab/FastSAM&Date)

Commit message:

Update News for Grounded-FastSAM

README.md, after:

![](assets/logo.png)

# Fast Segment Anything

[[`📕Paper`](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12156.pdf)] [[`🤗HuggingFace Demo`](https://huggingface.co/spaces/An-619/FastSAM)] [[`Colab demo`](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1oX14f6IneGGw612WgVlAiy91UHwFAvr9?usp=sharing)] [[`Replicate demo & API`](https://replicate.com/casia-iva-lab/fastsam)] [[`Model Zoo`](#model-checkpoints)] [[`BibTeX`](#citing-fastsam)]

![FastSAM Speed](assets/head_fig.png)

The **Fast Segment Anything Model(FastSAM)** is a CNN Segment Anything Model trained by only 2% of the SA-1B dataset published by SAM authors. The FastSAM achieve a comparable performance with
the SAM method at **50× higher run-time speed**.

![FastSAM design](assets/Overview.png)

**🍇 Updates**
- **`2023/06/26`** Release [FastSAM Replicate Online Demo](https://replicate.com/casia-iva-lab/fastsam). Thanks a lot to [Chenxi](https://chenxwh.github.io/) for providing this nice demo 🌹.
- **`2023/06/26`** Support [points mode](https://huggingface.co/spaces/An-619/FastSAM) in HuggingFace Space. Better and faster interaction will come soon!

- **`2023/06/24`** Thanks a lot to [Grounding-SAM](https://github.com/IDEA-Research/Grounded-Segment-Anything) for Combining Grounding-DINO with FastSAM in [Grounded-FastSAM](https://github.com/IDEA-Research/Grounded-Segment-Anything/tree/main/FastSAM) 🌹.

## Installation

Clone the repository locally:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/CASIA-IVA-Lab/FastSAM.git
```

Create the conda env. The code requires `python>=3.7`, as well as `pytorch>=1.7` and `torchvision>=0.8`. Please follow the instructions [here](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) to install both PyTorch and TorchVision dependencies. Installing both PyTorch and TorchVision with CUDA support is strongly recommended.

```shell
conda create -n FastSAM python=3.9
conda activate FastSAM
```

Install the packages:

```shell
cd FastSAM
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Install CLIP:

```shell
pip install git+https://github.com/openai/CLIP.git
```

## <a name="GettingStarted"></a> Getting Started

First download a [model checkpoint](#model-checkpoints).

Then, you can run the scripts to try the everything mode and three prompt modes.

```shell
# Everything mode
python Inference.py --model_path ./weights/FastSAM.pt --img_path ./images/dogs.jpg
```

```shell
# Text prompt
python Inference.py --model_path ./weights/FastSAM.pt --img_path ./images/dogs.jpg  --text_prompt "the yellow dog"
```

```shell
# Box prompt (xywh)
python Inference.py --model_path ./weights/FastSAM.pt --img_path ./images/dogs.jpg --box_prompt "[570,200,230,400]"
```

```shell
# Points prompt
python Inference.py --model_path ./weights/FastSAM.pt --img_path ./images/dogs.jpg  --point_prompt "[[520,360],[620,300]]" --point_label "[1,0]"
```

You are also welcomed to try our Colab demo: [FastSAM_example.ipynb](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1oX14f6IneGGw612WgVlAiy91UHwFAvr9?usp=sharing).

## Different Inference Options

We provide various options for different purposes, details are in [MORE_USAGES.md](MORE_USAGES.md).

## Web demo

### Gradio demo

- We also provide a UI for testing our method that is built with gradio. You can upload a custom image, select the mode and set the parameters, click the segment button, and get a satisfactory segmentation result. Everything mode and points mode are now supported for interaction, other modes will try to support in the future. Running the following command in a terminal will launch the demo:

```
# Download the pre-trained model in "./weights/FastSAM.pt"
python app_gradio.py
```

- This demo is also hosted on [HuggingFace Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/An-619/FastSAM).

![HF_Everyhting](assets/hf_everything_mode.png) ![HF_Points](assets/hf_points_mode.png)

### Replicate demo

- [Replicate demo](https://replicate.com/casia-iva-lab/fastsam) has supported all modes, you can experience points/box/text mode.

![Replicate-1](assets/replicate-1.png) ![Replicate-2](assets/replicate-2.png) ![Replicate-3](assets/replicate-3.png)

## <a name="Models"></a>Model Checkpoints

Two model versions of the model are available with different sizes. Click the links below to download the checkpoint for the corresponding model type.

- **`default` or `FastSAM`: [YOLOv8x based Segment Anything Model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m1sjY4ihXBU1fZXdQ-Xdj-mDltW-2Rqv/view?usp=sharing) | [Baidu Cloud (pwd: 0000).](https://pan.baidu.com/s/18KzBmOTENjByoWWR17zdiQ?pwd=0000)**
- `FastSAM-s`: [YOLOv8s based Segment Anything Model.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10XmSj6mmpmRb8NhXbtiuO9cTTBwR_9SV/view?usp=sharing)

## Results

All result were tested on a single NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090.

### 1. Inference time

Running Speed under Different Point Prompt Numbers(ms).
| method | params | 1 | 10 | 100 | E(16x16) | E(32x32\*) | E(64x64) |
|:------------------:|:--------:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:----------:|:-----------:|:----------:|
| SAM-H | 0.6G | 446 | 464 | 627 | 852 | 2099 | 6972 |
| SAM-B | 136M | 110 | 125 | 230 | 432 | 1383 | 5417 |
| FastSAM | 68M | 40 |40 | 40 | 40 | 40 | 40 |

### 2. Memory usage

|  Dataset  | Method  | GPU Memory (MB) |
| :-------: | :-----: | :-------------: |
| COCO 2017 | FastSAM |      2608       |
| COCO 2017 |  SAM-H  |      7060       |
| COCO 2017 |  SAM-B  |      4670       |

### 3. Zero-shot Transfer Experiments

#### Edge Detection

Test on the BSDB500 dataset.
|method | year| ODS | OIS | AP | R50 |
|:----------:|:-------:|:--------:|:--------:|:------:|:-----:|
| HED | 2015| .788 | .808 | .840 | .923 |
| SAM | 2023| .768 | .786 | .794 | .928 |
| FastSAM | 2023| .750 | .790 | .793 | .903 |

#### Object Proposals

##### COCO

|  method   | AR10 | AR100 | AR1000 | AUC  |
| :-------: | :--: | :---: | :-----: | :--: |
| SAM-H E64 | 15.5 | 45.6  |   67.7 | 32.1 |
| SAM-H E32 | 18.5 | 49.5  |   62.5 | 33.7 |
| SAM-B E32 | 11.4 | 39.6  |   59.1 | 27.3 |
|  FastSAM  | 15.7 | 47.3  |   63.7 | 32.2 |

##### LVIS

bbox AR@1000
| method | all | small | med. | large |
|:---------------:|:-----:|:------:|:-----:|:------:|
| ViTDet-H | 65.0 | 53.2 | 83.3 | 91.2 |
zero-shot transfer methods
| SAM-H E64 | 52.1 | 36.6 | 75.1 | 88.2 |
| SAM-H E32 | 50.3 | 33.1 | 76.2 | 89.8 |
| SAM-B E32 | 45.0 | 29.3 | 68.7 | 80.6 |
| FastSAM | 57.1 | 44.3 | 77.1 | 85.3 |

#### Instance Segmentation On COCO 2017

|  method  |  AP  | APS  | APM  | APL  |
| :------: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: |
| ViTDet-H | .510 | .320 | .543 | .689 |
|   SAM    | .465 | .308 | .510 | .617 |
| FastSAM  | .379 | .239 | .434 | .500 |

### 4. Performance Visualization

Several segmentation results:

#### Natural Images

![Natural Images](assets/eightpic.png)

#### Text to Mask

![Text to Mask](assets/dog_clip.png)

### 5.Downstream tasks

The results of several downstream tasks to show the effectiveness.

#### Anomaly Detection

![Anomaly Detection](assets/anomaly.png)

#### Salient Object Detection

![Salient Object Detection](assets/salient.png)

#### Building Extracting

![Building Detection](assets/building.png)

## License

The model is licensed under the [Apache 2.0 license](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgement

- [Segment Anything](https://segment-anything.com/) provides the SA-1B dataset and the base codes.
- [YOLOv8](https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics) provides codes and pre-trained models.
- [YOLACT](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10003) provides powerful instance segmentation method.
- [Grounded-Segment-Anything](https://huggingface.co/spaces/yizhangliu/Grounded-Segment-Anything) provides a useful web demo template.

## Contributors

Our project wouldn't be possible without the contributions of these amazing people! Thank you all for making this project better.

<a href="https://github.com/CASIA-IVA-Lab/FastSAM/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=CASIA-IVA-Lab/FastSAM" />
</a>


## Citing FastSAM

If you find this project useful for your research, please consider citing the following BibTeX entry.

```
@misc{zhao2023fast,
      title={Fast Segment Anything},
      author={Xu Zhao and Wenchao Ding and Yongqi An and Yinglong Du and Tao Yu and Min Li and Ming Tang and Jinqiao Wang},
      year={2023},
      eprint={2306.12156},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=CASIA-IVA-Lab/FastSAM&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#CASIA-IVA-Lab/FastSAM&Date)
